Title:
Spatial-temporal Prediction of COVID-19 Case Counts Through Epidemiology Model

Abstract:
Epidemiology Model alone is not sufficient to account for the complexity of COVID-19 and thus when implemented alone, often gives very inaccurate predictions. One reason is that the model itself does not take into consideration of the spatial aspect of the region. It assumes the region to be isolated from any other regions. In reality, there is a lot of traffic going back and forth among countries at the boundaries. In this project, my team adjusts the Epidemiology Model to account for the spatial aspect of the disease in order to predict case counts of Californian counties. We included the adjacency, the distance between counties, and the mobility. After fitting the original Epidemiology Model through Gradient Approach with learning rates adjusted by Hessain Matrix to found the infection duration and infection rate for each county, we implemented geographical information, including adjacency and distance among the Californian counties. The spatial model also takes into account the mobility score of each county, that is, how fast people are moving around. To test out the model, we performed predictions on 3/2/2021 based on the previous day's (3/1/2021) case counts with dt as 5. The infection duration and infection rate are based on previous 40 days.  Most of the counties yield less than 1% error. However, 5 counties have inaccurate predictions because of the missing data on its neighbors due to being on the edge of California, or low population. The model currently has not been tested out on the entire United States due to a lack of computing speed and missing data which will result in many counties without any neighbors. In the future, the model can be extended to predict 3 days in advance or more days to generate more value. Furthermore, the infection duration and infection rate are derived still based on the original model. In the future, we wish to use Gradient Descent to acquire infection duration and infection rate dynamically from the new model. 
